In this video, we're going to be
using the Select Features by
Value tool to see how many of
our sightings occurred in each
type of environment.
So the first thing we need to
make sure is to clear any
selection we have on our data
already.
So we'll go into the selection
toolbar and click on the
Deselect button and now the
button that we want to use to
select our features by a value
is the button to the left of
this.
But before we click on it, we
just want to make sure that we
have our Sightings layer
selected in the layers list.
And now we can click on the
Select features by Value button
which will bring up this window.
And so this shows all the
columns that we have in our
sightings table.
We're interested in the bottom
one, the environment.
And So what we need to change is
this button to the right hand
side that says exclude field.
This is what all of the
different column headings say at
the moment because none of our
data is selected.
So we're going to click on this
one for the environment and
change it to equal to.
And now in the box that we can
type in, we can type in what
environment we want to select
the data for.
So if we look for farm, we can
just type an F and now we can
see that it brings up farms.
So we'll click on this and now
we can click on the Select
Features button.
And so if we shut this window
now, we can see on our map that
some of the points are
highlighted, some of the data
has been selected.
So now we can go and open up the
attribute table for our
sightings layer to see the rows
that have been selected and how
many there are.
So like we did in the last
video, we can look at the top of
the table and it tells us that
10 points are selected.
So we know that 10 sightings
occurred within farmland.
And again, we can move the
selected rows to the top and
just to check our selection, we
can scroll across on our table
and we can see all of the of
these selected points have
occurred in farm.
And so now have a go at doing
the same thing for the different
types of environment and writing
down how many sightings occurred
in each type.
And just remember each time to
deselect the selected features
before you run your next
selection.